[The Clarks'
"Better Off Without You"]
♪ ♪
- ♪ Oh-oh. oh-oh-oh ♪
♪ You are sultry. dirty ♪
♪ Soft. and hard ♪
♪ You are close to me.
and you're so far ♪
[siren wailing]
♪ And I'm thinking of the time
we spent together ♪
♪ Now I'll bury this
in my backyard ♪
[engine revving]
♪ Sometimes I sit and wonder ♪
♪ If I'll never dial
your number ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm having fun
looking out for number one ♪
♪ And I'm doing all the things
I like to do ♪
♪ I'm having fun
'cause I knew it all along ♪
♪ I'd be better off
without you ♪
♪ ♪
- Hey. I need my cast off.
- As soon as you
park that outside.
Morning. Doc.
- Olsen.
Happy Fourth.
- Excuse me. guys.
- Sorry.
[person coughing]
[indistinct chatter]
[device beeps. door clicks]
[indistinct chatter continues]
Hey. how's it going. Dad?
- [sighs]
I'm so sleep-deprived.
My house is starting to feel
like a CIA black site.
- Have you considered hiring
a night nurse?
- You're looking at him.
- You got a ripe one coming in
you're gonna have to deal with
before everybody out there
starts puking.
- Lovely.
Your replacement came in early.
She brought in a full
bagel spread.
I'm just saying.
- She's not my replacement.
She's just covering as chief
while I go
on my little sabbatical.
- Three months?
- I'll be back
before your daughter
sleeps through the night.
- Hey. dude. that's cold.
- Morning.
- Good morning.
[elevator dings]
- Good morning. John.
- [sighs]
I could have sworn
it was still around 4:00 a.m...
- Did you guys have
an easy night last night?
The waiting room
actually looks manageable.
- I wouldn't call it easy.
but not too bad.
I figured we'd have hands
and burns down here a bunch.
but so far nobody's
blown off any fingers.
- Oh. you know
you just jinxed it.
- [chuckles]
You guys and your jinxes.
- Please. Jesus. please.
- Hail Mary again.
- In the sanctified flesh.
- Don't let me die alone.
- Just try to relax. Margaret.
- I need a priest.
- Hey. hey. Dr. Robby.
- What's the good word. Perlah?
- All your results came
back normal. Mrs. Walker.
- I'm dying.
- You're not dying.
Mrs. Walker. I promise.
- Jesus is coming for me.
- If He is. He hasn't checked
in at registration yet.
- Please don't let me die
a sinner.
- Don't worry. Margaret--
we're going to have
the hospital chaplain come
and see you in a moment.
- I'm not going
to last that long.
- Yes. you will. because we're
going to give you a shot
to keep you alive
until they get here.
What are you thinking.
Dr. Robinavitch?
500 mikes of cyanocobalamin?
- In her condition.
I'd push a full 1.000.
- Whoo.
You heard the man. Perlah.
- God bless you.
God bless all of you.
- Amen to that.
- Hail Mary. full of grace.
the Lord is with thee...
- Ooh. nothing like
the miracle healing powers
of a good old B12 shot.
How does she hold down a job?
- She doesn't.
- She's wearing
a waitress uniform.
- Yeah. from a diner
that closed 20 years ago.
- [over PA] Tier One Trauma.
ETA six minutes.
- And so it begins.
- My husband is still waiting
to see a doctor.
- I apologize for the wait.
but here are two doctors
just for you.
Mr. Burgess
has been complaining
of leg cramps for a day.
Slightly tachy at 110.
BP 128 over 75.
Afebrile. good sats.
- I'm Dr. Shen.
but I'm going off shift.
Dr. Robinavitch will be one of
the doctors looking after you.
- What other medications
are you currently taking.
Mr. Burgess?
- I brought his meds.
- Thank you.
[dog whines]
- These are his supplements.
mostly all-natural and organic
where possible.
And these are
his homeopathic prescriptions.
I also have a list
of his refrigerated probiotics.
[indistinct chatter]
- Where the hell is everybody?
- Our new attending
is torturing
our intern and med students
in Trauma One.
She came in early
to meet the night shift
and took things over.
- Okay. that takes giant balls
of disrespect.
- Giant Balls of Disrespect
was the name
of my band in high school.
- [sighs] And my nickname
for my ex-husband.
Hey. uh.
is this your last shift?
- For a while. yeah.
- Oh. I am so jealous.
Hey. I'll pay you a grand
if you take my second husband.
- Tempting.
So tell me about
this new attending.
- Uh. she's pretty.
divorced. one kid.
Can already tell
she is a strict rule follower.
I'm probably going
to grow to hate her.
- What's her name. again?
- Dr. Baran Al-Hashimi.
- Al-Hashimi?
What is that?
- Irish?
- [chuckles]
- She's some sort
of clinical informatics expert.
Once she started
talking about AI.
I started thinking about robots
and kind of stopped listening.
- Clear.
Off the chest. Ogilvie.
Get ready to step up here. Joy.
Ogilvie. off the chest!
- Clear!
[alarm blaring]
- Still V-tach.
but it looks weird.
- Agreed.
- No pulse.
- No effusion.
good lung sliding.
- Start compressions. Joy.
- We haven't considered
all the Ts.
- I checked for tamponade
and tension pneumo.
- What if it's thrombosis?
If it's a pulmonary or cardiac
clot. TNK could save him.
- We are sticking
with the algorithm for now.
- Algorithm's not working.
- Faster and deeper. please.
- Uh. you need a break. Joy?
- No. I need an attending.
- I'm right here.
Stop compressions.
We're calling it.
[flatline]
Sorry. the patient's dead.
[flatline continues]
All right.
Who can tell me what went well?
- We followed
the V-tach algorithm.
We checked
for reversible causes.
- We limited our rhythm
and pulse checks to 10 seconds.
- Excellent.
- Should we have
given thrombolytics?
- No. you should have
recognized
that the cardiac rhythm
on the monitor was polymorphic.
not just V-tach.
It was torsades de pointes.
That's French--
"twisting of the points."
- From prolonged QT.
antiarrhythmics.
electrolyte disorders.
- Your patient would have lived
if you had pushed
magnesium sulfate.
- Good news is
he's an organ donor.
Parts of him are going to get
used to make Frisbees
and water bottles and end up
as microplastics
in our brains
and reproductive organs.
- Thank you for the words
of encouragement. boss.
- Dr. Al-Hashimi.
Dr. Michael Robinavitch.
Everybody calls me Robby.
- Baran. please.
- Welcome to the Pitt.
- Yeah. about that--
- Trauma's a minute out.
- Ooh. who wants to treat
a real patient?
- Yes. please.
This thing's going
to give me nightmares.
- I hope you don't mind me
jumping right into things.
I find that a mock code
is a great way
to assess
the students' capabilities.
- Well. it might have been nice
if we'd had a little time
to go over how we do things.
- Did you not get a packet
from Dr. Underwood? Gloria?
It outlined
the quality-improvement changes
I instituted at the VA.
We're adopting the program
at all
of the university hospitals.
You didn't read it?
- No. I did. I mean. I will.
I'm going to.
I want to.
I thought I had
a little bit more time
before you came in today.
- We've already distributed
patient passports
to everyone at registration.
- What is a patient passport?
- So glad you asked.
Samira?
- Dr. Al.
- We worked together
at the VA a few years ago.
And now you're an R4.
- Yes.
And I'm so excited
you're joining us.
Dr. Mel King is here. too.
I think you worked
with her as well.
- Incoming!
- I did indeed.
- John Doe--dishwasher.
penetrating trauma
from a kitchen knife
to the right chest.
- Assault or accident?
- Unclear.
Initially had a pulse.
lost it two blocks away.
[respirator hissing]
- What do we got. party people?
- Dr. Yolanda Garcia.
trauma surgery fellow.
meet Dr. Baran Al-Hashimi.
new E.D. attending.
She's gonna be covering for me
while I'm gone.
- So nice to meet you.
- About time they replaced you.
Rabbit-bitch.
- I'm gonna miss you.
too. Yolo.
Dr. Garcia has a hard time
expressing her feelings.
- Not all of them.
- One. two. three.
Prep for a left thoracotomy.
- I'm on it.
- What's up. White Chocolate?
Did you know our farm boy here
is a vintage-funk freak?
Unfortunately.
he also likes to use
other people's toothbrushes.
- It was one time.
They were the same color.
- What's your plan. Samira?
- Dr. Mohan. next steps?
- Chest tube to the right.
Stand by with massive
transfusion protocol.
- I put two units
on the infuser.
- Sterile gloves. 6 1/2.
- Here. we let the fellows
and the residents
kind of take charge.
- I'll hold on to them
just in case.
- Is the VA even
a trauma center?
- Not for medic runs.
but they walk in--
falls. major MVCs. GSWs.
- Stab wound's on the right.
Why are we opening
the left chest?
- Better access
if it's tamponade.
and you can cross-clamp
the aorta.
- Javadi. Whitaker.
sterile gloves.
- Can I glove up?
- It's best if you
watch the first one.
- This guy's dead anyway.
- 10 blade.
- 28 French on a long Kelly.
- Javadi. you're on suction.
Whitaker. get ready
for internal compressions.
[cell phone chimes]
- Sorry. that's my phone.
- Finochietto retractor.
Whitaker.
give me a little room.
- I need to get to his heart.
- I'm in.
Hook up the Thora-Seal.
[cell phone chimes]
- You want me
to get that for you?
- Not right now.
[hose slurping]
- No tamponade.
pretty dry in here.
Heart's empty.
Somebody start cardiac massage.
I'll cross-clamp.
- Yeah. I got it.
You do these one-handed.
pushing up against the
breastbone with four fingers.
- Very good.
- Not much blood to suction.
- Okay. team. I think we need--
- Samira. next steps?
- Keep transfusing.
Open the right chest.
- That is correct.
Booties on. kids.
There will be blood.
[indistinct chatter]
- Frank?
Langdon.
Frank?
- [exhales deeply]
[indistinct chatter]
- You should be good
to go now. hon.
- Thanks. Lupe.
- Of course.
Hey. go get 'em.
- Hey. Doc.
It's been a while.
I got a-a bad toothache today.
- We'll take care
of that. Louie.
- All right.
[device beeps. door clicks]
- [clears throat]
[chatter continues]
- There's too much blood
to suction.
Uh. retracting the lung.
- Try to identify the source.
- Could be the right ventricle.
- Or more likely. the hilum.
- Fresh lap pads.
[cell phone chimes]
- Siri. turn on silent mode!
[keypad beeping. locker buzzes]
[keypad beeping]
[locker buzzes]
- [spits]
- Good morning.
- If it was a good morning.
I'd still be in bed.
- [chuckles]
So what are you doing here?
- Benji's mom is visiting
for the holiday.
- She's still alive?
- That woman's too mean to die.
Plus. who else is going
to get this place
through
the Fourth of July weekend?
- Sure as hell
ain't going to be me.
- I rest my case.
What am I walking into?
- Nothing too bad. yet.
Uh. these are the ones
I'd keep an eye on.
[gasps]
The prodigal son returns.
Too soon?
- No. I guess not.
You're back.
- I took some time.
I'm like an old trail horse--
I always find my way back home.
You look good. kid.
How you feeling?
- Uh. yeah. great.
You know. it's been a...
it's been a journey.
- I bet.
- Thanks.
Robby around?
- Uh. he's in with a trauma.
But if you hurry back. you can
catch some of the pass-ons.
They're in North.
- Uh. thanks.
- I'll keep an eye on him.
- I think we have
a lost little lamb.
Uh. excuse me. hon.
Can we help you?
- I'm looking
for the charge nurse.
- Oh. well.
you found two of 'em.
I'm Lena.
This is Dana.
I'm night shift. going home.
but Dana is queen
of the day shift.
- Emma Nolan.
Nice to meet you both.
Uh. I'm a new grad RN
here to shadow.
- Welcome to the Pitt.
Emma Nolan.
Here. let me put some
of your stuff behind the desk.
and I'll give you a quick tour.
- Okay.
- Where you from. sweetheart?
- Sault Ste. Marie.
- Oh.
- It's in Upper Michigan.
practically Canada.
- My great-grandmother
was from up that way--
nice area. a lot of bugs.
How about a cup of coffee?
[hose slurping]
- Can't locate the source.
- Proximal hilum
is under the sternum.
- Along with most
of the right ventricle.
- You need better exposure.
- Convert to a clamshell.
- Exactly.
- Trauma shears.
- Would've been nice to let
them come up with that plan.
- Heart's going to need double
compressions just like this.
[cell phone chimes]
- Squeeze from the apex
to the aorta.
[hissing]
- Right ventricle looks good.
- Massive hemorrhage
from the hilum.
- Second MTP pack is going.
additional four units.
- Hilar injury
looks very proximal--
may be pulmonary artery
and vein.
- Clamp's on.
Nope. no good.
Still bleeding
like a stuck pig.
- I can give it a try.
- Dr. Garcia is
a very skilled surgeon.
If she can't get it. we need
to think of something else.
- Like what?
- Hilar flip.
We're going to rotate
the lung 180 degrees.
like putting a kink
in the garden hose.
It'll stop the bleeding.
- That could possibly work.
- Or he'll die when you rip
the entire lung off the hilum.
- Gently. very. very gently.
very. very slowly.
[respirator hissing]
- Blood loss is slowing down.
- That's a good sign.
- Hilum looks dry.
- Yeah. but the heart
feels empty.
- Okay. we fixed the leak.
Now let's fill the tank.
[cell phone chimes]
You are very popular today.
- Sorry. I'll turn it off
when I can.
- Nine-year-old Kylie Connors--
brought in by
her dad's girlfriend. Gina.
Kylie took a tumble
on the stairs this morning.
3-centimeter chin lac
and a chipped front incisor.
She's got LET
on a pressure dressing.
Bleeding pretty good
on arrival.
Dermabond should do the trick.
Any questions?
Dr. King?
Mel?
- Oh. um.
I didn't say anything.
- Uh. how you feeling. Kylie?
- Tired.
- We've been here since 5:30.
- Oh. that makes two of us.
But don't worry.
We'll patch you up good as new.
And we will get you out of here
as soon as we can.
Any questions?
- Can you raise your chin?
- No. I'm just
her dad's girlfriend.
so I'm new to all this.
- No worries. We got you.
Next.
- 26-year-old Liam Sanders--
took a fall from his bicycle.
No LOC. nonfocal neuro.
lower-leg lac
with no bony tenderness.
- Were you wearing
a helmet. Liam?
- No. I was just riding
in my neighborhood.
- You should always
wear a helmet.
- Hey. nice of you to join us.
- Hey.
- Dr. Langdon!
- Sold to Dr. Langdon.
- Candace O'Grady. 82...
[person coughs]
Brought in by her son Richard
for intractable vomiting.
- Hardly any hemorrhage
on the right.
- Looks like the flip worked.
- How's the heart. Whitaker?
- Feels full of blood.
First time since we started.
- Hold compressions.
- Quivering bag of worms.
- Resume compressions.
- When the heart quivers
like that. it's obvious V-fib.
- Okay. internal paddles ready.
- Mm-hmm. Charge to...?
- 25 joules.
- 50 joules.
50 gets it right
the first time.
[paddles whirring]
- Charged.
- Okay. Whitaker.
when you're ready.
- Clear.
- That's what normal sinus
looks like.
- Strong carotid.
- Saline lap pads
and up to the OR.
- That's a hell of a way
to start the day.
- Unconventional.
but a decent outcome.
- Why don't we split up
for efficiency?
Residents present to either
one of us but not both.
- We can certainly
discuss that.
- Were you feeling weak
or dizzy?
- [sighs]
No.
I-I got up to pee.
and I tripped over
a laundry basket that
I couldn't see in the dark.
- Did you hit your head?
- Does my chart say
that I hit my head?
- No. we just
want to be thorough
to make sure
you don't miss anything.
- How about we focus
on patching me up?
Ah!
- All right. Mr. Williams.
we're going to check an X-ray
of your wrist
and try to get you out of here
as quickly as possible.
- Great. And let's keep
the bullshit extra charges
to a minimum. huh?
My deductible
is already a bitch.
- [sighs]
Sure.
[Samira speaking Tamil]
Bye.
My mother is trying
to destroy my life.
- Yeah. they seem
to take pleasure in that.
- I committed
to a partnership-track position
next year at a hospital
back in Jersey
so I could be close
and support her.
But now she's getting married
and selling our house
to go on a year-long cruise
around the world.
- Wow.
I mean. that's a--
- Pretty fucking stupid idea.
if you ask me.
She's known this guy
less than a year.
What if he's a player?
What if she disappears at sea?
- I mean.
what if they're in love?
- Lust is more like it.
- That is even better.
Man. it has been a while.
and I'm solo this weekend.
I need to get laid.
It's a little much
before 8:00 a.m.. right?
- [scoffs]
Yeah.
Or ever.
- How's it going. Esme?
- Oh. just another day
in paradise.
[device whirs]
- Heard you're going on a trip.
- Taking a sabbatical.
Leave tonight.
- Where you going?
- Um. Head-Smashed-In
Buffalo Jump.
- Captain Crunch
flying squirrel socks.
What. are we talking in code.
or are you having a stroke?
- It's an Aboriginal UNESCO
Heritage Site in Alberta.
I've never seen the Badlands.
- What is this. like. uh.
some sort of spirit quest?
- Uh. yeah.
something like that.
- Look. I. uh--
I guess we should talk.
Got a lot of things I need to--
- At some point. not right now.
Right now
I got to hit the head.
and I would like you to go
help Donnie out in Triage.
- Triage?
N-no.
No. I already picked up
a patient in North 2.
a bicycle fall leg lac.
so maybe--
- Pretty sure
we can cover for you.
We've been doing it for months.
- Right.
No. and I--and I am--
I am very. uh--
both very sorry
and appreciative of that.
I just would hate to think
that this is some kind
of a punishment for...
but. uh. yeah.
Yeah. No. for sure.
We'll--we'll talk later.
before you go.
- Like I said. not right now.
Donnie just passed
his NP certification.
He can help if you get in
over your head.
Hey. Mel...
can you take over
a bike fall leg lac in North 2
for Langdon
while he's out in Triage?
- Um. you know. I-I can work
in Triage if you want--
- No. I want to keep Langdon
out in Triage.
and I want to keep you
back here.
You okay with that?
- Sure.
- Great.
- Absolutely.
- So...
who should I pick up?
- We're about to get
the morning rush.
- What do you mean?
- Every morning
around this time.
the nursing homes
and assisted-living facilities
do their morning bed checks.
- Uh-huh.
It looks pretty quiet to me.
- Huh.
- Incoming.
- Oh. like I said.
Come on.
- Ethan Bostick. 79--
found altered this morning
at assisted living.
No history of dementia.
Has a POLST.
- What's a POLST?
- Physician Orders
for Life-Sustaining Treatment--
no CPR. no intubation.
- Then there's--
there's nothing for us to do.
- South 15 is open.
Uh. well. "do not resuscitate"
does not mean "do not treat."
He may perk up with fluids.
IV antibiotics.
- [speaking Korean]
- What's the good word. Crash?
You save
that ventriloquist dummy?
- Yeah.
- Really?
- No.
- [laughs]
Wait. tell me
you're not actually charting
about losing a mannequin.
- It's part of the exercise.
Dr. Al-Hashimi
asked us to do it.
- Who's his next of kin--
Barbie?
[chuckles]
What's your. uh. take
on the new attending?
- Too soon to tell.
You?
- [sighs]
She's already bugging me
about being behind
on my charting.
Now I know why everyone says
being a second-year resident
sucks--because it does.
- I must've slept through
the part of med school
where they tell you 90% of
your time will be spent typing.
- Which is just one more reason
surgery is
a better lifestyle choice.
- Hey. Dr. Shamsi.
Dr. Trinity Santos.
- Ah. yes. the ER intern
who's interested
in my surgery program.
- That's me.
But I'm an R2 now and thinking
of double boarding
in surgery
and emergency medicine.
which I know would sound
ridiculously ambitious
if I didn't have the talent
to back it up.
- And the required attitude.
Are you here to see a patient?
- I was. I did.
And now I'm here to learn
why you aren't returning
my calls or texts.
- Okay. I'm out.
Nice seeing you again.
Dr. Shamsi.
- As soon as I get
a little free time.
I will make plans for all of us
to do something together.
- What about Tuesday?
- I'm working.
- On your birthday?
- I will call you
and Dad tomorrow.
and we'll come up with something
to do together. I promise.
But right now I actually have
a bunch
of night-shift hand-offs.
- [clears throat]
- We have schedules.
You have chaos.
You know she's wasting
her talents down here.
- Victoria is a big girl.
She can make her own decisions.
- She's also a young girl who's
still very impressionable.
And you can be very...
- "Pressionable"?
[cell phone ringing]
- Yes?
Who?
Oh. for God's sake.
I'll be right there.
We need to talk.
- [whispering]
How about same time tomorrow?
- Next Tuesday's your birthday?
- No.
Yes.
- Your 21st birthday?
- Please don't
say anything. okay?
I-I get a little anxious
about--
- Dr. Santos. little girl
with the chin lac
is getting into a gown.
[whispering]
Don't want anyone to know what?
- Nothing.
- Have a good day.
- You too.
- [speaking Tagalog]
- [normal voice]
Oh.
- Hey. Duke. I'm just calling
to remind you
that this is my last shift
for a while.
So I need you to come in
before 3:00
in case we need
to run some tests.
Okay?
We had a deal. brother.
Oh. Hello.
- Hi.
I know you're crazy busy.
- Always.
- But I figured we should
really go over a few things
before you're gone.
- Sure.
Where would you like to start?
- Well. one little thing
that I think
would have a big impact
with staff and patients alike
is if we launched a campaign
to eradicate referring
to this wonderful department
as the Pitt.
- Really?
- I know you think
it's silly and petty.
- No. I think it's
just kind of endearing.
pretty damn accurate.
- I would argue the opposite.
I think subconsciously
it affects those who work here.
It also lowers expectations.
which in turn lowers
patient-satisfaction scores.
- You have been talking
to Gloria.
- Yes. and she agrees with me.
- Don't doubt that for a moment.
- You have to see the man
over there right now!
- We see people in order
of severity. ma'am.
- [speaking Ukrainian]
- I don't know
what you're saying.
- I can taste the shit
in the back of my throat.
- Actually. the lady's right.
He's going to make
all of us sick.
- Yes. please.
[indistinct chatter]
- [coughing]
- All right.
[sighs]
We'll get him back.
Tell Dana
we're bringing the funk.
- Oh. my God.
- Whew!
- So when did your eye start
bothering you. Ms. Mathews?
- Sister Grace. please.
I'm only married to God.
- Of course. I'm sorry.
- A few days ago.
I thought it was pink eye
or maybe I scratched it
while gardening.
- It's a very bad case
of conjunctivitis.
We should send a sample
to the lab
to direct our treatment.
Look up for me.
Thank you.
Okay. I'll put a numbing drop
in your eye
and check for a scratch
with a special lamp.
And I'll get you
to look up for me again.
Thank you.
- Have you ever considered
serving God?
- Which one?
- Excuse me?
- My family is Hindu.
so we have. like.
33 different kinds of deities.
- Oh. we have the one.
- Some people
only need one. right?
Okay.
[camera shutter clicks]
- Most important rule
around here--be smart. be safe.
I can't warn you enough
about protecting yourself
and your fellow nurses.
We use the STAMP acronym
to assess patients.
You know it?
- Uh. S is for staring
or refusal to make eye contact.
- If they're staring.
they're scaring.
T?
- Tone of voice.
- Often the threat level
rises with their voice.
- A is for anxiety.
- You can also think
"aggression."
- M is mumbling.
- Which. if you
listen closely enough.
is often them saying
what they're thinking of doing
as they talk themselves
up to it.
And P?
- Pacing.
- Good.
We also have a safe word--
"hula hoop."
I guess technically
it's two words. but whatever.
If there's a threat.
say "hula hoop."
and we'll all respond.
[cell phone ringing]
Yeah?
Lovely.
Okay. I'll be right there
with reinforcements.
Duty calls.
We're headed for Triage.
[indistinct chatter]
- We're going to get
your cast off--
[low humming]
- The antibiotics
should clear everything up.
but you should try to stay
off it for a few days.
- Uh. I have to work.
I'm late as it is.
- Well. um. take breaks
and elevate when you can.
Tylenol and Advil for the pain.
If the pain persists or feel
like it's getting worse.
come on back.
We'll get you fixed up.
- Thanks.
- They said give this
to the doctor.
- What the hell is it?
- Patient passport.
Lets patients know
what they're waiting for
and how long it'll take.
You check off if he needs labs.
X-rays. CT.
- None of the above.
When did we start this?
- Today. the new attending.
- [scoffs]
What's up
with your tooth. Louie?
- It's been going on
for a while.
but it got bad last night.
[groans]
Lower-left side.
- Okay.
- [groaning in pain]
- Oh. yeah.
It could be an infection
at the root.
- [groans]
- We can drain it. but then...
you're. uh--you're breathing
kind of fast.
- [exhales sharply]
Yeah. I've been--
well. I've been.
uh. walking more.
trying to get in shape.
But sometimes I get
a little short of breath.
- Yeah. you need to walk past
the liquor store. not into it.
Only shape you're getting in
is for a liver transplant.
- I don't need a new liver.
Just get rid of this toothache.
- Deep breath.
- [breathes deeply]
- One more.
- Is my heart still ticking?
- Like a jackrabbit.
How long you been sitting down?
- Oh. just for a few minutes.
Not that long.
- Um. Louie...
There's something
I need to tell you.
Last time I saw you.
about ten months ago.
I treated you. and I took
some of your medicine.
- I'm not sure I follow.
- I have an addiction
to benzos.
and I helped myself to some
of the Librium I prescribed you
for your withdrawal.
- You stole my pills?
- Yeah.
Yes. um...
I'm sorry.
It was. uh...
it was not only wrong
and utterly unprofessional.
but it was a betrayal
of my Hippocratic Oath.
and it was a fucking crime.
That's where I've been--
rehab and counseling.
- Huh.
- I'm sorry.
I-I understand if you'd prefer
a different doctor.
- Hey. Doc.
we have a situation.
- Excuse me.
What kind of situation?
- Someone left a little baby
in the restroom.
[baby crying]
- Okay. let's think
about reversible causes
of confusion in the elderly.
- Uh. hypo or hypernatremia.
infection. but he's afebrile.
good O2 sats.
and urine dip is negative.
- Yeah. great.
Joy. anything to add?
- Nah.
[alarm blaring]
- V-tach. Can I--
- Yeah.
- No pulse.
Should we call for a code blue?
- No CPR. no shock. we honor
his POLST and his wishes.
- So what does that leave us?
- Making sure he's comfortable.
- I'll suction.
- Altered mental
in the elderly can also be
toxicity from anticholinergics.
sedative-hypnotics. opioids.
A-am I missing something?
- Social skills?
- [chuckles]
- What?
[blaring continues]
- He looks so peaceful.
- Shouldn't we go find
a new patient?
- No. stay here.
[flatline]
- Asystole.
- Quick and painless.
We should all be so lucky.
- I'll try to contact
some family.
[flatline stops]
- Yeah. one of the things
we like to do here...
When we have the time...
is to take a moment of silence
when we lose a patient
to respect their humanity.
He was someone's son.
perhaps a father himself.
a brother or a friend.
Oh. uh. make sure
your phones are on silent.
Great. great. great.
Okay. Uh...
- Is anyone missing a baby?
Did anyone leave their child
in the restroom?
- Do you. uh. remember seeing
a woman enter with a baby
but leave without one?
- No. sorry.
Might be on the security tapes.
I'll have Ahmad check it out.
- Please.
- Yeah.
- Harlow Graham to window one.
Harlow Graham to window one.
please.
- Donnie Donahue.
nurse practitioner.
This is Emma. new grad nurse.
- Hey.
- Nice to meet you.
- What's going on?
- Somebody dumped their kid.
- Maybe Mom just stepped out
for a smoke or something.
What?
I'm being helpful.
Sometimes they just need
a little break.
and then they come back.
At least they didn't leave her
in a suitcase
at the bus station.
- Does that happen?
- If that's a true story.
I don't want to know about it.
- It ain't the worst I've seen.
- Please. don't tell me.
I'm a new dad. remember?
- Okay.
[baby crying]
There you go.
I'll get Robby.
- Should I come with?
- No. stay here.
Donnie. Jesse.
teach her something.
- You know how to check
a rectal temp on an infant?
- Uh...
theoretically.
- Mr. Williams. how's the pain?
- Nothing I can't manage
with some Vicodin
and a little scotch.
- [chuckles] Well. it's best
not to mix the two.
James here is going to take you
to get an X-ray of your wrist.
- I'm going to be fine.
- Well. it'll tell us
if you need a cast.
- Oh. I doubt it.
I should probably go home.
keep some ice on it.
I know you guys
always need the beds.
- Well. uh.
it'll only take a minute.
and then we'll know for sure.
- Yeah. I-I really don't think
it's necessary.
And I have a busy day.
but I appreciate your concern.
- I'd really like to observe you
for a little bit.
in case you did hit your head.
- My head?
I hit my schnoz on my arm.
I think. nothing more.
- You think?
You don't remember?
- No.
Or. yes.
I'm going to be fine. really.
But thank you for your concern.
- Okay.
- [shouts in pain]
- How about we take that X-ray
just to be safe?
- Yeah. Yeah. okay.
- Yeah?
Okay.
- Okay. good idea.
- [sighs]
Somebody found a baby?
- Yeah.
Not the first time
it's happened.
So. about those pills I took--
- Oh. don't worry
about it. Doc.
If the pills helped you. great.
I never really liked
taking 'em.
[both chuckle]
- I appreciate that. Louie.
That's not really
the point. but...
I need to lift up
your shirt for a second.
- [groans. sighs]
- How long has your belly
been hard like that?
- I don't know.
I figured I could wait
another week.
- You need. uh. some lab tests
and a procedure to drain off
some of this fluid.
- Yeah. I know the drill.
I've been tapped
a few times before.
- Three times
in the last six months.
You need to give your liver
a break. Louie.
- Yeah. I know.
- I just heard somebody
dumped a baby
in the waiting-room bathroom.
How sad is that?
- Huh?
- What's up with you today.
Mel... ancholia?
- What makes you think
there's something up with me?
- You're moping
around here all day
like somebody gunned down
your favorite K-Pop band.
- I don't really have
a favorite K-Pop band.
It's not that I don't like
the genre.
It's just kinda--
- Okay. forget K-Pop.
What's going on with you?
You usually ride in here
on your unicorn
tossing wildflowers.
- "Unicorn"?
- [sighs] Never mind.
Is everything okay
with your sister?
- Oh. yeah. she's great.
It's just this...
[stammers]
- Spill. girl.
- Um...
well. a-a couple months ago.
I got named in a...
[whispering]
Malpractice lawsuit.
And so. um. today
is the--the deposition.
- That's it?
Every emergency-medicine doc
gets sued sooner or later.
Seriously. don't sweat it.
You're still a resident.
We're protected
by the hospital.
You could cut somebody's head
off and get away with it.
But. you know. like. don't.
You don't want to become
known as the one
who put Mel in mel-practice.
- Hey. Santos. our little girl.
Kylie. has been
in the West Penn Emergency
Department a couple times.
- I'm not saying this
is necessarily the case here.
but recent studies
have linked bullying behavior
to different
personality disorders.
On the other hand. though.
I-I am known to be a bit
overly sensitive sometimes--
- Mel.
- Yes?
- You're talking
to yourself again.
You need something?
- Uh. yeah. a good lawyer.
[chuckles]
I don't know. I'm kidding.
I'm--
- Yo. Robinavitch. somebody
ditched a bundle of joy
in chairs.
- How old?
- Couple months maybe.
Donahue's got her in Pedes.
- No one saw who left her?
- Apparently not.
- That's so sad.
- Tell me about it.
Who throws away
a perfectly good baby?
- [laughs]
- Make a lane!
- Ah. sweet baby Jesus.
Antoine!
Right to the outdoor shower!
- I just drive 'em.
I'm not
a wash and detail service.
- Yeah. yeah.
God forbid you prove useful.
Ah. good timing. Ms. Emma.
Time for you and me to do
the Lord's work. This way.
- Ooh. God. what is that?
- Okay. big breath.
- [breathes deeply]
- All right. lungs sound great.
Can you lean forward for me?
Uh. did you hit your back
when you fell down the stairs?
- No.
- Okay. there's
a pretty good bruise here.
- I got knocked down in soccer.
- Oh. no. you broke your wrist
last year. too. huh?
- Fell off my skateboard.
Got a purple cast.
- Cool color.
- And you were treated
at West Penn?
Is that your closest hospital?
- Uh. I guess
that would make sense.
I've only been dating her dad
a few months.
Uh. he lived in Garfield
before the divorce.
- And. uh. what about these?
- Soccer.
- Do you wear shin guards?
- My dad ordered them.
- Okay. What does your dad do
for work?
- He draws buildings.
but he's not an architect.
- He's a draftsman
for a firm in Newcastle.
- Okay. Um. Kylie.
any chance you can pee?
- Mm. maybe.
- Okay.
Well. with the bruise
on your back.
we need to check your urine.
- Okay.
- Did you eat anything
out of the ordinary recently?
- No.
Sorry. but we went
through this a bunch.
Don't you people communicate?
You're the third nurse
we've told her story to.
- I'm a doctor.
- Richard. would you go
to the cafeteria
and get me
a large chamomile tea?
What can we get you. my dear?
- I'm fine. thank you.
- Yeah. I'll be right back.
- Please excuse my son.
Ever since my husband died.
he's been
a little overprotective.
- I think it's sweet.
You're very lucky to have him.
- I am.
- Are you still taking your
loperamide and cholestyramine?
- Um. mm. not so much.
- No?
That may be why you're
experiencing the abdominal pain
and vomiting.
When did you stop taking
your meds?
- Last winter or so.
My neighbor Helen and I bingo
in Wintersville.
There's a dispensary next door.
And we got some marijuana.
And I swear
it cleared everything up.
A few cookies
every few hours...
and no more pain.
- "A few cookies"?
How many are you eating
in a day?
- Oh. uh...
I don't know.
Probably a dozen or so.
but they're not very big.
- There have been some studies
that show
an added dementia risk
with marijuana use
in older adults.
- Well. that sucks
for old people.
[urine trickling]
- Kylie.
there are some questions
that we ask every kid
who comes in with an injury.
- Like what?
- Like. sometimes the people
that you live with
can get so mad that
they hit you or hurt you.
maybe without even meaning to.
Does that ever happen?
- No. not to me.
- Or sometimes kids
can get punished
for doing something wrong
with maybe a spanking
or a belt.
- I get time-outs.
- How about at school. Kylie?
You know. is anybody being.
you know. mean or bullying you?
- No. I have lots of friends.
- [clears throat]
[toilet flushing]
[water running]
- Yo. Whitaker.
- Dr. Langdon.
- You. uh. meet Louie here?
- Uh. yeah. yeah. many times.
Good morning. Mr. Cloverfield.
- What's up. Doc?
- Where's your new resident
badge buddy. buddy?
- Oh. uh. yeah. they--they
didn't give me a new one yet.
- Bummer.
You and. uh.
your ducklings got time
to tap a six-pack
off our friend here?
Louie needs a paracentesis.
- Yeah. sure.
It's good to see you
again. Louie--
not in this condition.
of course.
How you feeling?
- Feeling like I need
a drink pretty soon.
- Okay. well.
first things first--
we are going to make you
more comfortable
by draining some fluid.
- You're gonna take off
a big volume.
so start with 60 grams
of 25% albumin IV.
You tapped him before?
- No.
- That's okay. Doc.
I'll talk him through it.
- [chuckles]
Okay.
- Sats 99 on room air.
normal BP. normal pulse.
- Oh. well hydrated.
- No obvious source
of infection.
Could be a benign virus.
but can't assume that.
- Is this the abandoned baby?
- Mm-hmm.
- How old?
- How old do you think she is?
- Month. month and a half?
- It's tricky.
Under 28 days is a Safe Haven
drop-off. no questions asked.
But over 28 days is a crime.
child abandonment.
- How should we assess?
- Under 28 days gets everything.
including an LP.
But over 28 days.
you can follow PECARN
or Step-by-step
to determine risk of invasive
bacterial infection.
- This baby looks great.
- But we know nothing
about the birth history.
Did Mom have group B strep.
active HSV lesions?
- We should assume the worst.
Put in your orders. Dr. Mohan.
- CBC...
[sighs]
Blood culture. chem panel.
chest X-ray. UA and culture.
respiratory virus panel.
Check inflammatory markers--
procalcitonin and CRP--
then take it from there.
- That sounds like a plan.
- Dr. Robby.
Santos needs you in North 1.
- Okay. I'll be right there.
If you'll excuse me.
if you'll excuse me.
- Mind if I join with?
- Uh. no. I got this.
- It will help me
get a better sense
of how you like to do things
by seeing you in action
with the residents.
- Be my guest.
- I will be right back.
Um. nine-year-old
Kylie Connors--
took a tumble running up
the stairs this morning.
Chin lac and fractured tooth.
Brought in by her dad's
girlfriend. Gina.
Supposedly. the dad had
to leave early for work.
Kylie has a lot of bruising
on her body--
some old. some new.
- Are you concerned
about non-accidental trauma?
- Or worse.
Her urine sample shows
gross hematuria.
which could be renal injury.
or vaginal bleeding from trauma
could have contaminated
the specimen.
- Lots to consider.
What's your plan?
- Labs. ultrasound.
social-work consult.
then decide
if this is reportable.
- Mm-hmm.
- Let me know
if you can feel this.
- No.
Am I supposed to?
- Your hair's
such a pretty color.
- Thank you.
- Reminds me of my mom.
She died when I was nine.
- Oh. I'm sorry about that.
- She wore glasses
like you. too.
Weird.
What do you like to do
when you're not working?
- Um. spend some time
with my sister.
read.
- Do you drink coffee?
- Uh. no. I avoid caffeine.
- Me too.
Um...
what about boba?
- I love boba.
[chuckles]
- I'd offer you some gum.
but it's laced with nicotine.
Trying to quit smoking.
- [sighs]
That's good.
- Verdict's still out.
Get in all those nooks
and crannies. Mr. Digby.
Your skin will thank you.
We all will.
- Oh. I could stay
in here all day.
- It's a miracle what little
soap. water. and human decency
can do sometimes.
Don't forget the ears. pal.
Don't want anything
growing in there either.
- Okay. Okay.
- What's your story. Emma?
What'd your parents do?
Got siblings? Boyfriend?
Ever kill a man in a bar fight?
- Uh...
[indistinct chatter]
- [sighs]
So. Mr. Williams.
sometimes a fracture
of the scaphoid bone
doesn't show up on day one.
So my advice to be safe is
wear a splint for two weeks
and then come back
for a repeat X-ray.
and we'll see
if it's really there.
- [sighs]
My knee hurts.
- Oh. did you hurt your knee?
- I must have.
What is this?
- That's. um. for your wrist.
- And I need this?
- Well. um. if it's a. uh--
John. can you?
If it's a fracture
and we don't immobilize.
the bone might not heal
properly.
- [sighs]
How long is this gonna take?
- Just a few minutes
to fit you.
- Is this place new?
- Mr. Williams.
do you know what day it is?
- It's Taco Tuesday.
- Do you know where you are?
- Yeah. I'm in the slowest
medical clinic in the West.
- Do you know what year it is?
- How about you just
fix my wrist
and you stop
with all the questions?
I am not here to be profiled.
- Yeah. of course.
I'll be back. okay?
[inaudible speech]
- All right. Mr. Digby.
looking better already.
Certainly smell
a little better.
- Do you have any conditioner?
- Let's get you dried off
and back inside.
Get him gowned up
and put him in South 21.
across from the old nun.
Maybe some of her divine grace
will wear off on him.
Who do we have here?
- Evelyn Bostick. 81.
with Alzheimer's.
We brought her husband in
about 30 minutes ago.
She was supposed
to get a ride in.
but they found her
wandering in traffic.
- Where are we?
- You're at the hospital. dear.
- I'm not sick.
- We brought you
to see your husband.
- Oh. no.
Is Ethan okay?
- I'll be in to chat with you.
Mrs. Bostick.
He died.
What you got. Amboy?
- Allen Billings--had a pallet
fall onto his outstretched arm.
Looks like an open dislocation.
- Yeah. that's got to hurt.
Don't worry. sir.
We got you.
- [breathing heavily]
- How's she doing?
- Seems happy enough.
- Yeah. Hi.
- Hi.
Just got a quick
point-of-care CBC.
- [chuckles]
Is there a problem?
Did I miss something?
Dr. Al? Dr. Al?
[Yvonne Fair's
"Say Yeah Yeah"]
- ♪ I've been hurt ♪
♪ But I refuse to cry ♪
♪ I've been hurt. baby ♪
♪ It's so true ♪
♪ You know. you know.
you know ♪
♪ You know I can't lie ♪
♪ And I said.
yeah. yeah. yeah ♪
- ♪ Yeah. yeah. yeah ♪
- ♪ Yeah. yeah. yeah. baby ♪
- ♪ Yeah. yeah. yeah! ♪
- ♪ Yeah. yeah. yeah ♪
- ♪ I won't cry ♪
♪ Oh. you know I won't cry ♪
♪ I said ♪
♪ I won't cry.
baby. baby. baby ♪
♪ You know I won't cry ♪
♪ You know. you know
I won't cry. baby ♪
♪ I'm telling you.
I won't cry ♪
♪ Oh. I don't lie ♪
♪ Oh. and I refuse to cry ♪
♪ And I said ♪
♪ From time to time ♪
♪ Your friends.
they treat you so cold ♪
♪ Your friends. you know they
act better. yeah. yeah ♪
♪ When you have that gold ♪
♪ Oh. I won't lie ♪
♪ You know. you know.
you know ♪